Ingredients
1 ten-and-a-half-ounce can of cream of mushroom condensed soup
One-half cup of milk
1 teaspoon soy sauce
One-half teaspoon of black pepper
Two fourteen-and-a-half-ounce cans of green beans
One two-point-eight-ounce container of French’s Fried Onions (divided)

Tools: Adaptive Measuring Cups and Spoons and WayAround Tags for labeling (Learn more: read Chef Debra’s post, Labeling clothing.)


Method
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees.

Tool: Tactile paint or bump dots to mark dials or flat screens (Learn more: read Chef Debra’s post, Using bump dots to label bottles and jars.)

Grease a 6 to 8-cup capacity oven-safe casserole dish.
Divide the container of French’s Fried Onions into 2 equal portions that weigh one point four ounces each and set aside.

Tool: Talking Scale

Drain the 2 cans of green beans and set aside.
Add one can of cream of mushroom soup to a large bowl.
Add one-half cup of milk and mix until well combined.

Tool: Wooden Spoon

Add one teaspoon of soy sauce.
Add one-half teaspoon of black pepper.
Add the two cans of drained green beans and mix well.
Add half the container (one point four ounces) of French’s Fried Onions to the bowl and mix well.

Tools: Adaptive Measuring Cups and Spoons and WayAround Tags for labeling

Place all of this into an oven-safe baking dish.
Bake at 350 degrees for 25 minutes until the bean mixture is hot and bubbling. Remove from the oven.

Tools: Heat Gloves and Oven Rack Guards

Set oven to broil.
Sprinkle the remaining French’s Fried Onions over the top of the bean mixture. Do not stir. They will brown on the top.
Put under the broiler for three to four minutes until the onions are sizzling and become crispy brown.
Remove from oven and allow to cool for 10 minutes before serving.

Easy ways to “Step Up Your Game”
Choose one or all of the following ways to make your casserole a bit “fancier”. But be careful—some of your guests may not want you to interfere with tradition! You have to gauge your audience.

Drain one small bottle of red pimentos or finely dice one-half cup of red bell pepper to add a splash of flavor and color
TOOL: Cut Glove
Add one-half cup of shredded cheese to the bean mixture before cooking it.
Add a thin layer of shredded cheese to the top of the casserole before adding the rest of the French’s Fried Onions and broil with the onions.
Crumble 3 strips of crispy bacon and add to the bean mixture.
Saute a small amount of attractive thick sliced mushrooms and add some to the mixture and the most attractive ones on top of the mixture before adding the onions to broil.
Tool: Slicing Guide and Cut Glove