Also known as a “Fry Up” a traditional English breakfast varies, but what seems to be included in all versions are sausage, bacon, baked beans, tomatoes, mushrooms and bread – all of these are fried. You probably won’t be hungry again until dinner!

There is a video below where this entire dish is explained in detail as I and my friend and sous chef, Chris Cooke, create this English Breakfast for our friends at Double Tap, a video recorded podcast hosted by Steven Scott and Shaun Preece “where blind people talk tech.” Click here to watch!

Recipe in 8 parts:
Part 1: Gather and organize needed tools and ingredients. This comes together quite quickly so having everything ready to go before you turn on the stove top is important.
Part 2: Cook the meats
Part 3: Prepare the produce (while the meats cook)
Part 4: Cook the beans
Part 5: Toast the bread
Part 6: Cook the produce
Part 7: Fry the eggs
Part 8: Plate and enjoy!
Recipe Note: this meal is usually cooked in one pan, but with vision loss, tracking and timing the various parts of this meal can be difficult to track. I prefer to turn on a low oven, and as the different parts cook, keep them warm in a low oven until it all comes together at the end with all items nice and hot and attractive on the plate!

English Breakfast ingredients
Note: the amounts below are for one serving. Multiply the amounts for the number of people you are feeding.

2 Breakfast Sausages per person
Ingredient Note: Cumberland sausages are links made of pork and flavored with mace, sage, nutmeg and pepper. They are a bit larger than traditional American breakfast links so use your judgement as to how many links each person should eat.

4 ounces Bacon (best if a slab and not a strip, ideally pork back which comes from the tenderloin and the belly of the pig)
1 or 2 eggs per person
Ingredient Note: the eggs can be poached, fried or scrambled as you prefer. Traditionally they are fried and so that is the way they are prepared in this version.

Mushrooms, 2 ounces quartered
Ingredient Note: Baby Bella mushrooms are traditional, but you can use white button mushrooms.

Tomato: 1 per person, oval shape such as Roma or plum tomato works best
1 slice of bread – French bread medium thick slice
1 can baked beans in tomato sauce (Heinz is traditional since World War 2)
Vegetable Oil of your choice
Salt and pepper to taste
4 teaspoons of butter
One teaspoon Worcestershire sauce
Instructions:
Step 1: Preheat oven to 170 degrees Fahrenheit.
Step 2: Place a dish with the raw sausages and the bacon on a work tray near the stove. Place a wood fork, tongs and talking thermometer near this dish.
TBK Tools: Work Trays, Long Wood Tongs, Talking Thermometer, and Wood Fork

Step 3: Add one tablespoon of neutral oil to a frying pan large enough to hold the sausages and bacon in a single layer without crowding. Or, you can add 2 teaspoons of butter to the pan and melt it over low heat. When the butter is melted, keep the heat low but add the sausages to the pan. You should barely hear a sizzle while it cooks.
TBK Tools: Auto Measure Spout and Butter Slicer

Step 4: Place a small parchment lined baking sheet near the oven.
Step 5: Clean the tomatoes and mushrooms and set in their own separate bowl on a work tray.
TBK Tools: Vegetable and Fruit Cleaning Cloth and 4 Cavity Ingredient Organizer

Step 6: Open a can of baked beans
TBK Tools: Safe Can Opener and Can Strainer and Thumbprint Spreader

Step 7: (Optional) Set 2 teaspoons butter and one teaspoon of Worcestershire Sauce in the small saucepan you will be cooking the beans in. Set on the lowest possible heat because the beans are already cooked, you are just warming them. Stir occasionally.
Recipe Note: It is not traditional to season the beans further, but I found them to be rather bland when served as they come in the can and this adds depth to the flavor.

TBK Tools: Locking Lid Pan 5 Quart, Liquid Dropper, Bottle and Funnel, and Wood Spoon

Step 8: When the internal temperature of the sausage reaches 140 or so, add the bacon to the pan. It just needs to be warmed through. Set a timer for 2 minutes and then turn, and once again set the timer for 2 more minutes. Remove the sausages and bacon from the pan, place them on the prepared baking sheet, and place them in the low oven to keep warm.
TBK Tool: Talking Countdown Timer

Step 9: Add another pat of butter to the frying pan. Add the slice of bread and toast on both sides. Place the bread on the baking sheet to keep warm.
Step 10: Add the mushroom quarters to the frying pan and cook until fragrant and soft. Use a slotted spoon to remove them from the pan and return them to their steel prep bowl and place in the oven to keep warm.
Step 11: Place the halved tomatoes flat side down and cook in oil until fragrant – about 2 minutes. You are just warming them through. After about 2 minutes, turn them once and cook for about 2 more minutes. Remove them and place them in the oven to keep warm.
Step 12: Fry an egg or two in butter as desired. To learn how check out this post: Fry the perfect sunny-side up egg.
TBK Tool: Egg Rings

Step 13: Plate the food, don’t forget the food in the oven and a scoop of beans!
Enjoy!