Hoppin’ John is a traditional southern dish served on New Years Day and is thought to bring luck into the new year. The collard greens represent green money bills and the “eyes” of the black eyed peas represent the coins that are sure to come your way!

It is traditionally served with corn bread on the side. Many families have their own traditional Hoppin’ John recipe, but I have selected the ingredients and methods that seemed most common across the different recipe options.

What the Hoppin’ John recipes have in common:

A smoked fatty pork product as the base
Sauteed diced onions, celery and green bell peppers (often called (the holy trinity)
Black eyed peas
Collard greens
Rice
Herbs and spices: thyme, bay leaf, black pepper
Chicken stock
Ingredients
One pound dry black eyed peas (Allow to soak in water for 12 hours or overnight)
Ingredient Note: 1 pound of dried black eye peas yields 3 cups when cooked. If using canned black eyed peas, use three fifteen ounce cans, drained and rinsed. They will cook more quickly than the dried ones and will be softer to the bite) Refrigerate until use.
2 cups cooked rice (refrigerate until using)
One pound smoked thick cut bacon
Ingredient Note: Many people add or substitute other smoked pork products such as smoked ham cubes, slices of smoked pork sausage, and a neck bone or ham hocks)
4 cups chopped collard greens
1 large diced onion (about 2 cups)
1 cup diced celery
1 cup diced green bell pepper
Six cups chicken broth
2 cups cooked rice
Ingredient Note: Many people cook the rice in the same pot as the rest of the ingredients. This will infuse the rice with flavor. If you do this add an additional 2 cups of chicken stock and one cup of raw rice. I find it difficult to time when the rice is al dente and the black-eyed peas are not cooked until too mushy. So, I choose to cook the rice in advance – it’s still very good. If infusing the rice with the same flavors, you can flavor the liquid used to cook the rice outside of the Hoppin’ John pan. Also, some people serve the rice in a bowl and then top it with the Hoppin’ John mixture. Your choice.
2 bay leaves
Four sprigs fresh thyme or one tablespoon dry thyme
Fresh ground black pepper and salt to taste
TBK Tools: Safe can opener and can strainer

Instructions
Step 1: Soak the black-eyed peas for twelve hours or overnight. If using canned drain and rinse and set aside.

Step 2: If using an herb bag to be able to easily retrieve the bay leaves and/or fresh thyme sprigs after cooking, place 2 bay leaves and 4 fresh sprigs of thyme in the herb bag and set aside.

TBK Tool: Herb bags

Step 3: Chop four cups of bite size collard greens and set aside. Be sure to remove and discard the woody vein that runs down the middle of each leaf as it is very tough to eat.

Recipe Tip: Kitchen scissors or tearing by hand work very well for this step.

Step 3: Medium dice one cup green bell pepper. Set aside in a medium bowl

TBK Tools: Cut Glove, Bench Scraper, Work Trays, Mixing Bowl Set, and Dry Measure Cups.

Recipe Tip: Save the chopping of the onions for last so the sulfuric smells that make us cry will not be in the air until absolutely necessary.

Step 4: Medium dice one cup celery. Set in bowl with bell pepper.

Step 5: Medium dice one onion to produce 2 cups. Add to bell peppers and celery. Set aside.

Step 6: Cut one pound of thick sliced bacon into bite size pieces.

Recipe Tip: Put the bacon in the freezer for about 15 minutes to firm it up a bit by solidifying the raw fat. It makes it much easier to cut. Kitchen scissors or a sharp knife work well for this task.

Step 7: Saute Bacon pieces over medium heat until just starting to crisp. Remove bacon from pan and set aside on a paper towel to drain.

TBK Tools: Long Wood Spoon and Straining System

Recipe Tip: Wait for the bacon and grease to cool before doing this step to avoid burning yourself. To insure you get every piece of the bacon, use the Blind Kitchen straining system to trap the bacon bites in a cheesecloth bag, and this will also save the bacon grease for a flavorful future use.

Step 8: Leave 3 tablespoons of bacon grease and 2 tablespoons of olive oil in the bottom of the pan and saute the onions, bell pepper and celery over medium heat for 5 minutes to begin to tenderize them. Stir often and be sure to scrape any bits of food from the bottom of the pan to prevent burning. You should just hear a slight sizzle as the “holy trinity” of onions, bell pepper, and celery cooks.

TBK Tool: Auto Measure Spout and Dry Measure Spoons

Step 9: Add in the 4 cups of collard green pieces and saute for 2 minutes more.

Step 10: If using raw rice, add in two cups and stir for 3 to 4 minutes to allow the rice to toast a bit and absorb some of the flavors. Also add 4 cups chicken stock after the rice has cooked for 3 to four minutes.

Step 11: Add 8 cups chicken stock to the pan

Step 12: Add the 2 bay leaves and the thyme. Tie the drawstring of the herb bag to the handle of the pan for easy retrieval.

Recipe Note: If using ham hocks or neck bone, add to the pot at this time.

Step 13: Bring the mixture to a simmer, stirring occasionally.

TBK Tool: Boil Alert Disk and Long Wood Spoon

Recipe Tip: Using a long wooden spoon allows the spoon to stay in the pan since wood does not conduct heat, leaving it in a predictable place where it cannot fall into the pan, and keep your work area cleaner since you don’t have to move it to a spoon rest when not using.

Step 14: If using rehydrated black-eyed peas add them at this time. If using canned, do not add them yet.

Step 15: Simmer over low to medium heat until black-eyed peas and rice are to your liking, about 45 minutes.

Step 16: Pulling it all together: Add in cooked bacon pieces.

Recipe Note: This is the time to add any cooked pork products such as ham cubes and sausage slices. If using canned black eyed peas, add them now.

Step 16: Add in the cooked rice if you wish to serve all as a mixture at this point.

Step 17: Add in the drained canned black eyed peas if using.

Step 18: Cook at a low simmer for 12 to 15 minutes to allow flavors to meld.

Step 19: Taste and adjust seasonings. Most pork products contain a high salt content, so be careful to tase before you add more.

Recipe Tip: If the mixture lacks a depth of flavor, add in liquid smoke, a quarter teaspoon at a time until the broth taste and thickness are to your liking.

TBK Tool: Liquid Dropper, Bottle and Funnel and Salt and Pepper Cellars

Recipe Note: The black eyed peas have the quality of being a natural thickener to help to produce a thicker than liquid sauce/gravy like texture.