Ingredients
4 rashers of bacon (smoked bacon without too much fat is best, e.g. smoked back bacon)
4 eggs
4 English-style pork sausages
4 medium-sized tomatoes, halved around the equator
400 g mushrooms, sliced
4–8 slices of bread (traditionally white)
1 tin baked beans (optional)
Procedure

Start toasting the bread before cooking the rest of the food. Assuming 2 slices per person, you should have enough by the time you finish the fried food. Be sure to butter them heavily with real butter rather than low-fat spread. Place 4 plates on the bottom shelf of an oven, and one on the top. Set the oven to its lowest heat.
Melt some lard in a large frying pan (enough to make a layer of fat around 1 cm deep) and brown the sausage in it over a high heat. Lower heat and cook the sausage for around 4 minutes, and leave it in the pan. A lot of fat will leak from the sausages. Add the bacon (2 strips per person rather than 1) and cook to taste, flipping regularly (2–3 minutes for pink, 4–6 for a darker red bacon with crispy fat). The bacon will also release a lot of fat. Transfer the bacon to the warmed dish in the top of the oven. Leave the sausage in the pan.
Add the mushrooms and tomatoes to the pan. Add the tin of baked beans to a small pot and heat on a separate burner. After 2–4 minutes, transfer the mushrooms to the oven with the bacon. Transfer the tomato then too, or leave it a little longer depending on taste.
The sausages should now be dark brown, push them to the side of the pan and break an egg into the fat. Using a spatula, push hot fat over the yolk until it begins to bubble but is still liquid. This should take about 1 minute or so in a hot pan. Set out the 4 warmed plates beforehand and add an egg to each. When done, add the sausage, bacon, and mushrooms. Add the beans last. Serve with the buttered toast on a separate plate.
If you are using black pudding, add it to the fat with the bacon and remove it before the eggs.
If you desire a fried slice, add a slice of bread (whole or cut diagonally, in half or quarters) and allow it to absorb some of the leftover fat and lightly fry, then flip over and repeat. Alternatively, you can just fry some bread in vegetable oil in a separate pan but it doesn't have the same flavour as bread fried in the leftover fat from cooking a full breakfast in lard. If a whole slice is used it is preferable to place the fried egg on top, so the yolk runs into the bread and can easily be absorbed by the fried slice.
Notes, tips, and variations
You can increase the number of eggs per person if desired.
If you can't cope with preparing everything all at once (or don't have enough pans / rings), it is possible to keep all of the items warm in a preheated oven, so you can just cook each item in turn and keep it warm until needed. Try not to keep the eggs warm for too long before serving though, as the yolks may harden.